how to work as a team on a project in github ?
does it need to be only in one repo and all others collaborate on it ?
what if people working on it want to show their progress on their github ?

Of course! This is an excellent question and a fundamental part of modern software development. Let's break it down.

1. How to Work as a Team on a Project in GitHub
The standard and most effective way to collaborate on GitHub is using the Fork & Pull Request Workflow or the Feature Branch Workflow. Here’s a step-by-step guide:

The Standard Collaboration Model (Fork & Pull)
One Central Repository (The "Source of Truth"):

One person (usually the project lead) creates a new repository on GitHub. This is the official, main project repo.

Other Team Members "Fork" the Repo:

Each team member goes to the main repo on GitHub and clicks the "Fork" button. This creates a complete, independent copy of the repo under their own GitHub account.

Clone the Fork Locally:

Each member then clones their own forked copy to their local machine.

git clone https://github.com/YOUR-USERNAME/project-name.git

Add the Main Repo as an "Upstream" Remote:

This is a crucial step to stay synced with the main project.

git remote add upstream https://github.com/ORIGINAL-OWNER/project-name.git

Now you have two remotes: origin (your fork) and upstream (the main repo).

Create a Feature Branch for Your Work:

Never work directly on the main branch. Create a new branch for each feature or bugfix.

git checkout -b my-new-feature

Do Your Work:

Write code, make commits, etc. Commit to your feature branch.

git add .

git commit -m "Add a new cool feature"

Push to Your Fork:

Push your feature branch to your own fork on GitHub (the origin remote).

git push origin my-new-feature

Open a Pull Request (PR):

On GitHub, go to your forked repo. You'll see a prompt to compare and open a pull request from your my-new-feature branch to the main branch of the original main repository.

Fill in the PR template: describe what you did, why, and any relevant screenshots or testing notes.

Review and Merge:

Teammates or leads review the code directly in the PR, leaving comments and suggestions.

You can make more commits to your branch to address feedback; the PR updates automatically.

Once approved, a project maintainer merges the Pull Request into the main repo's main branch.

Keep Your Fork Updated:

Regularly pull changes from the upstream main repo into your local main branch to avoid conflicts.

text
git checkout main
git fetch upstream
git merge upstream/main
2. Does it need to be only in one repo?
Yes, but with a crucial distinction.

One Central Repository: There is always one central, "source of truth" repository (e.g., company-name/project-name). This is the official project.

Many Personal Repositories (Forks): Each collaborator has their own full copy (a "fork") of that central repo on their GitHub account (e.g., your-username/project-name).

So, while there are technically many repositories, all work is funneled back into the single central repo via Pull Requests. This keeps the project organized and secure.

3. What if people want to show their progress on their GitHub?
This is the best part! The Fork & Pull model solves this perfectly.

When you work via forks and pull requests:

Your Fork is Your Public Profile: Your forked repository (your-username/project-name) is publicly visible on your GitHub profile (unless the main project is private and you're part of the team). All your work and commits are visible there.

Your Activity is Highlighted: When you push a branch and open a Pull Request, this activity is shown on your public GitHub profile (under the "Pull requests" section). It's a public record of your contribution.

The Green Squares (Contribution Graph):

Key Point: Commits you make on a branch in your own fork will light up your GitHub contribution graph only if that branch is eventually merged into the main repository's default branch (usually main or master) via a Pull Request.

If you just commit to your fork and never make a PR, it won't count.

If you make a PR that gets merged, all the commits from that branch will be counted on the day they were originally made, lighting up your graph beautifully. This is a huge incentive for contributors.

Alternative for Small, Trusted Teams: Feature Branch Workflow
For small teams where everyone has direct write access to the main repository, you can skip forking.

Everyone clones the main repo directly.

Everyone creates a feature branch (e.g., git checkout -b feature/login-page).

They work on that branch and push it directly to the main repo (git push origin feature/login-page).

They open a Pull Request from that feature branch (on the main repo) to the main branch (also on the main repo).

This is simpler but gives everyone more responsibility, as they can potentially push to important branches.

Summary
Aspect	How It Works	Benefit
Collaboration	Fork & Pull Request model.	Isolates work, enables code review, maintains a clean main branch.
Repository Count	One central repo, many personal forks.	Single source of truth while allowing independent work.
Showing Progress	Work is on your public fork. Merged PRs count toward your contribution graph.	Perfectly showcases your individual work and collaboration on your profile.
Final Recommendation: For open source or any team where not everyone has write access, always use the Fork & Pull Request model. It's the standard for a reason. For small, tight-knit teams, the Feature Branch model can be a bit faster.
